Welcome back in this lesson we're going to build a mini calculator.
So the first thing that we need to do so we've got our outputs set up but we need some more inputs so
we need a way to grab some of the values and we're going to simply be using some H to melt your input
type text.
And we just need to assign some values so this can be number one when you have some ideas in order to
be able to grab those values so you can also get the labels first
and then we could do a second.
So that would be the second number.
And let's start a new line for this one.
So number two.
So that gives us two numbers and then we've got our output here.
So let's start this on a new line still line breaks there for the output.
So we refreshed not much happening yet.
So I do want to create several different buttons.
So in math we know we can.
So the set up I put out and I give this function a name.
And so what I want to do is I want to have the ability to grab the first number and add them together
and then create an output that can that the user can see.
So we want to get the two numbers together and let me actually place this underneath so place underneath
there and we don't need it.
So just refresh that.
So I want to have whatever the first number is I want these people then two or three for click and then
have them together and the output displayed here with an output div element.
So now let's build our javascript for this.
So we know we need to grab some of these values.
So the first value that we need to grab is output.
So this was our container that we've been using and we've just been using the document get element by
id and then selecting the output element and placing that with an output object.
So this is what I do is I want to grab some of the numbers that we have here and I want to set this
up as objects as well and they're actually going to be changing as we're interacting with the content.
So we want the ability to pick up three four whatever changes have been made.
So let's put these up.
No.
1 and 2 document get element by id and in the ID values.
So this one is no.
1.
And then we do a second once we're going to copy it and do two.
So let me grab those both with an object and next that we know that we've got as functions as a function
called.
Right.
So I want to invoke this function whenever ad gets clicked and we want to output whatever value whatever
we're doing would ever not fanatic's we're doing here.
We want that output into our aged him out
so let's use put object inner peace to you Mel.
And then we need to grab those two numbers so we know what we've got no one and number two.
And we also know that they're going to be coming in as stream values.
So in order to crowd the values of number one and number two I can do no one value because we know earlier
we saw when it comes to DOM elements we get those values that we can pick up using value.
So those are the that's the information we can pick up from the input elements.
So we still need to transform this into a number.
So are you going to just run with a number and let's try this first.
So let's see we've got a number that we're entering in here and we click it and we see that output is
being transcribed here with that output element.
So everything appears to be working properly.
So another thing that we could actually do is we can build out our string our output here and then make
that output afterwards so we can do that as well.
So maybe what we want to do is just to make things a little bit more interesting.
We'll do a function and we're going to call this function.
You know so basically whenever we want to put any information here then this is what we can utilize.
This is what we can make use of to output information.
So it's passed as parameters solve to a b and c and then I'm going to copy this one over and I'm going
to put a plus and I put a space in there.
And then within the value of b what I want to do is I want to return back the value of that character
so for it will be plus or minus the minus sign and so on.
So then have the ability to pass those and actually put those into the age you know.
So now all we need to do is pass those parameters into our output to Mel
so we can do that in a number of ways.
I can do that very simple.
And I can set them all like this and variable be can be this this is a longer format.
So first we'll try to see if this works and then we'll shorten this so variable see.
And remember these are different variables when we're passing them in here within the function as they're
being picked up.
So we don't have to be the same values.
So it's just the case making it easier and then we're going to shorten this as well.
So let's let's try this.
So let's do five plus seven.
We have five plus seven and we should also have output placed here.
So this is another thing another value that we can pass in here.
So maybe this can be D and this can be very healthy and equal to a class C and then let's do this and
equal that to whatever is contained within D and D over here.
So let's refresh that is 6 plus 45.
So 6 plus 45 equals 51 and we could also continue to can't make them down and some spaces there.
Refresh it and this time.
So if you get a bunch of numbers there we can see that we've got a bunch of those totals there.
And I should do a line grade.
Well just to make it neater
So let's refresh again one more time and these to be numeric.
I use them together and so we can see that now every time we update this we've got all of those math
outputs coming out there.
So what you do now is to pause the video and audio and some additional functionality.
So I know that we've worked through how to set up IDE and what I want you to do is also set up so tracked
multiply and divide.
So using that same format that we did an ad buy and you can try to shorten it as well as a number of
ways to shorten this so you can do that as well.
And putting that content into not put h UML passing all those parameters.
So again you can shorten this and you can find another way to pass the parameters as well.
Free to do that.
So go out and subtract multiply and divide by and post the video and I'll show you the solution coming
up.
So welcome back.
Hope you had the opportunity to try that out.
So the first thing that I should want to do is I want to shorten this so we know that we've got very
people who are doing these together.
And let's let's do something to shorten this value so that we don't have to have such a line.
So it's a number of parameters being passed through.
So I just one to pass through a formula and the other one to simply have that equals two that will be.
And let's put this up to equal to whatever the value is.
So we're not going to have C and D because this is quite a bit of parameters there and we don't actually
need that many parameters.
So now let's say let's shorten what we've got here as well.
So all we want to really do is for b y to have that plus whatever this value is here and that's all
we need for B and for a we don't have to worry about converting those values.
So let's let's just add this together update this to be the plus sign and then number two
this.
Oh sure.
Met quite a bit.
You can even shorten it even more if you wanted to.
So let's first let's try this just to make sure that everything is working so 5.6 6 5 6 is 11 and so
everything is working properly.
So let's do the other input values.
So what about 1 4 subtract.
So we just call this so by and we can do the long format or we could just use the symbols if we want
to.
So let's create a function for that and having that going into that output as well.
So this one is solved by.
So all we do is make a slight adjustment to here and let's try this out and see if it works.
So let's do 55.
Second number is 5.
So subtracting 5 from 555 gives this 555.
So that right next one.
Let's try out and we'll do multiplication and division.
So let's add those small multiply divide by and then do it just and I use your multiply
and divide.
So let's put and create our functions here.
So I'm going to just simply copy and paste them.
So this one is going to be multiplied by
and this one is going to be divided by.
And let's just update those values so I can use X and over here I need to use javascript multiplier.
So that's the Asterix.
This one is divide and I just use javascript by.
So there you go.
So let's refreshed that and try this.
So 6 3.
So first we're going to add six and three together.
Next we're going to subtract six minus 3 3 6 times 3 as 18 and six divided by three is two.
And we can update the numbers and now we can see that everything works perfectly and that's how you
can use functions and create some additional functionality within your applications and all of this
can be triggered by the user.